contact.markdown, before:

---
layout: page
title: Contact Us
permalink: /contact/

circlewidth: 100
circlewidth2: 80
circlewidth3: 150
---

<a href="https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/life-sciences/people/fiona.whelan">The Whelan lab</a> is located in the Life Sciences building on the <a href="https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/">University of Nottingham's</a> University Park campus in Nottingham, UK. We are part of the School of Life Sciences and Division of Cells, Organisms, and Molecular Genetics (COMGen).

<h2>Join us!</h2>

If you are interested in positions within the Lab, email Fiona your CV, and a short statement of interest.

<h3>Open Positions</h3>
The Whelan lab is currently recruiting MRes students. Learn more about the programme <a href="https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/life-sciences/study-with-us/postgraduate-research/mres-and-phds.aspx">here</a>.

The lab has a project on the study of the human microbiome via in vitro culturing and bioinformatics available via The Nottingham BBSRC Doctoral Training Programme. The application deadline is 30 May 2022. Note: this round of applications are only open to candidates with home fees status. Find out more <a href="https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/bbdtp/index.aspx">here</a>.

The Whelan lab would be honoured to host applications to The British Academy's <a href="https://www.thebritishacademy.ac.uk/news/the-british-academy-and-the-council-for-at-risk-academics-announce-new-fellowships-for-researchers-at-risk/">Fellowships for Researchers at Risk</a> programme. If you work on anything vaguely related to our Research interests, please get in touch- I would be happy to help guide the submission of an application.

Additionally, we are always interested in individuals who would like to apply for scholarships or fellowships. Some options of funding opportunities follow:

<h4>Postdoctoral Fellowships:</h4>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-msca-2021-pf-01-01;callCode=null;freeTextSearchKeyword=;matchWholeText=true;typeCodes=0,1,2;statusCodes=31094501,31094502,31094503;programmePeriod=2021%20-%202027;programCcm2Id=43108390;programDivisionCode=43108473;focusAreaCode=null;destination=null;mission=null;geographicalZonesCode=null;programmeDivisionProspect=null;startDateLte=null;startDateGte=null;crossCuttingPriorityCode=null;cpvCode=null;performanceOfDelivery=null;sortQuery=sortStatus;orderBy=asc;onlyTenders=false;topicListKey=topicSearchTablePageState">Marie Sklodowska-Cure Individual Fellowships</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.ukri.org/opportunity/bbsrc-discovery-fellowships-2022/?utm_medium=email&utm_source=govdelivery">BBSRC Discovery Fellowships</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://royalsociety.org/grants-schemes-awards/grants/newton-international/">Newton International Fellowships</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://wellcome.org/grant-funding/schemes/early-career-awards">Wellcome Trust Early Career Awards</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.axa-research.org/en/page/AXA-Fellowships">AXA Fellowships</a></li>
  <li><a href="">Commonwealth Postdoctoral Fellowship</a></li>
  <li><a href="">EMBO Long-term Fellowships</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://royalcommission1851.org/fellowships/research-fellowships">1851 Research Fellowships</a></li>
  <li><a href="">HFSP Postdoctoral Fellowships</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.nihr.ac.uk/explore-nihr/academy-programmes/fellowship-programme.htm#three">NIHR Advanced Fellowship</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.leverhulme.ac.uk/early-career-fellowships">Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowships</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://royalsociety.org/grants-schemes-awards/grants/dorothy-hodgkin-fellowship/">Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowships</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.ukri.org/opportunity/daphne-jackson-fellowship/">Daphne Jackson Fellowships.</a> For those returning after a career break.</li>
  <li>A list of funding opportunities maintained by <a href="https://ecrcentral.org/fundings">ECR Central</a></li>
  <li>A list of funding opportunities maintained by <a href="https://research.jhu.edu/rdt/funding-opportunities/postdoctoral/">John Hopkins University</a> (may be more US-focussed).</li>
</ul>

<h4>Doctoral/Postgraduate Fellowships:</h4>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://www.bifonds.de/fellowships-grants/phd-fellowships/who-can-apply-phd.html">The Boehringer Ingelheim Fonds Studentships</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.nihr.ac.uk/explore-nihr/academy-programmes/fellowship-programme.htm#two">NIHR Doctoral Fellowship</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.britishcouncil.org/education/he-science/newton-fund/phd-programme">Newton PhD Programme</a></li>
  <li><a href="">Commonwealth Scholarships</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.marshallscholarship.org/apply">Marshall Scholarship</a></li>
  <li>A list of funding opportunities maintained by <a href="https://research.jhu.edu/rdt/funding-opportunities/graduate/">John Hopkins University</a> (may be more US-focussed).</li>
</ul>

Commit message:

adding Envision DTP to contact page

contact.markdown, after:

---
layout: page
title: Contact Us
permalink: /contact/

circlewidth: 100
circlewidth2: 80
circlewidth3: 150
---

<a href="https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/life-sciences/people/fiona.whelan">The Whelan lab</a> is located in the Life Sciences building on the <a href="https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/">University of Nottingham's</a> University Park campus in Nottingham, UK. We are part of the School of Life Sciences and Division of Cells, Organisms, and Molecular Genetics (COMGen).

<h2>Join us!</h2>

If you are interested in positions within the Lab, email Fiona your CV, and a short statement of interest.

<h3>Open Positions</h3>
We have a fully funded PhD position currently available via the NERC Envision DTP programme on the effect of environmental metals on antimicrobial resistance genes in the stickleback microbiome. To learn more and to apply (deadline: 11 January 2023) <a href="https://www.envision-dtp.org/2022/the-effect-of-environmental-metals-on-the-spread-of-antimicrobial-resistance-genes-in-the-stickleback-skin-microbiome/">click here</a>.

The Whelan lab is currently recruiting MRes students. Learn more about the programme <a href="https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/life-sciences/study-with-us/postgraduate-research/mres-and-phds.aspx">here</a>.

The lab has a project on the study of the human microbiome via in vitro culturing and bioinformatics available via The Nottingham BBSRC Doctoral Training Programme. The application deadline is 30 May 2022. Note: this round of applications are only open to candidates with home fees status. Find out more <a href="https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/bbdtp/index.aspx">here</a>.

The Whelan lab would be honoured to host applications to The British Academy's <a href="https://www.thebritishacademy.ac.uk/news/the-british-academy-and-the-council-for-at-risk-academics-announce-new-fellowships-for-researchers-at-risk/">Fellowships for Researchers at Risk</a> programme. If you work on anything vaguely related to our Research interests, please get in touch- I would be happy to help guide the submission of an application.

Additionally, we are always interested in individuals who would like to apply for scholarships or fellowships. Some options of funding opportunities follow:

<h4>Postdoctoral Fellowships:</h4>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-msca-2021-pf-01-01;callCode=null;freeTextSearchKeyword=;matchWholeText=true;typeCodes=0,1,2;statusCodes=31094501,31094502,31094503;programmePeriod=2021%20-%202027;programCcm2Id=43108390;programDivisionCode=43108473;focusAreaCode=null;destination=null;mission=null;geographicalZonesCode=null;programmeDivisionProspect=null;startDateLte=null;startDateGte=null;crossCuttingPriorityCode=null;cpvCode=null;performanceOfDelivery=null;sortQuery=sortStatus;orderBy=asc;onlyTenders=false;topicListKey=topicSearchTablePageState">Marie Sklodowska-Cure Individual Fellowships</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.ukri.org/opportunity/bbsrc-discovery-fellowships-2022/?utm_medium=email&utm_source=govdelivery">BBSRC Discovery Fellowships</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://royalsociety.org/grants-schemes-awards/grants/newton-international/">Newton International Fellowships</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://wellcome.org/grant-funding/schemes/early-career-awards">Wellcome Trust Early Career Awards</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.axa-research.org/en/page/AXA-Fellowships">AXA Fellowships</a></li>
  <li><a href="">Commonwealth Postdoctoral Fellowship</a></li>
  <li><a href="">EMBO Long-term Fellowships</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://royalcommission1851.org/fellowships/research-fellowships">1851 Research Fellowships</a></li>
  <li><a href="">HFSP Postdoctoral Fellowships</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.nihr.ac.uk/explore-nihr/academy-programmes/fellowship-programme.htm#three">NIHR Advanced Fellowship</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.leverhulme.ac.uk/early-career-fellowships">Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowships</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://royalsociety.org/grants-schemes-awards/grants/dorothy-hodgkin-fellowship/">Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowships</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.ukri.org/opportunity/daphne-jackson-fellowship/">Daphne Jackson Fellowships.</a> For those returning after a career break.</li>
  <li>A list of funding opportunities maintained by <a href="https://ecrcentral.org/fundings">ECR Central</a></li>
  <li>A list of funding opportunities maintained by <a href="https://research.jhu.edu/rdt/funding-opportunities/postdoctoral/">John Hopkins University</a> (may be more US-focussed).</li>
</ul>

<h4>Doctoral/Postgraduate Fellowships:</h4>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://www.bifonds.de/fellowships-grants/phd-fellowships/who-can-apply-phd.html">The Boehringer Ingelheim Fonds Studentships</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.nihr.ac.uk/explore-nihr/academy-programmes/fellowship-programme.htm#two">NIHR Doctoral Fellowship</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.britishcouncil.org/education/he-science/newton-fund/phd-programme">Newton PhD Programme</a></li>
  <li><a href="">Commonwealth Scholarships</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.marshallscholarship.org/apply">Marshall Scholarship</a></li>
  <li>A list of funding opportunities maintained by <a href="https://research.jhu.edu/rdt/funding-opportunities/graduate/">John Hopkins University</a> (may be more US-focussed).</li>
</ul>
